Take a deep breath and let it out slowly. Notice that you are completely OK for this one breath. Do it again.
If you have trouble resisting a craving when other smokers are around, try carrying a water bottle and taking a sip every time you want to ask for a cig.
If leaving social situations to avoid smokers feels awkward, make sure you have something to do instead - take sugar free mints, lollipops or low fat snacks to chew, or use a stress ball.
Try to avoid seeing other people smoke. It might sound basic but brain see, brain want! If you can, make life easier and avoid the people you used to smoke with for some time where possible.
When your mind tells you that you will be less stressed after smoking a cigarette, remember that you don't have to listen to that thought. It's just a thought and nothing more.
Craving a cig? Plan a fun activity you can do when you get home as a reward for not smoking.
Each time you choose to not smoke after seeing someone else light up, you lessen the habit a little more.
Tell yourself, “I am going to quit smoking soon.” Say it out loud. Say to yourself, “I am too strong to continue smoking for the rest of my life."
Are you feeling down because you are thinking of smoking? It's really important to be kind to yourself, and to make sure you give yourself praise too!
Have confidence in knowing that you can have this urge, choose not to smoke, be okay, and choose to do things that matter most to you.
Instead of smoking, keep your fingers busy by scrolling through your phone.
To help get through a 'risky situation', remind yourself of how far you've come and the effort that you've put in. Don't ruin your hard work - stay strong!
Ask yourself, "From 0-10, how willing am I to let this urge pass without smoking?" Let it pass to be closer to the things that matter most to you.
Stop! Breathe. What is going on around you? Inside you? Allow everything to be just as it is. Breathe again.
What can you do right now to break the automatic habit of smoking to help you feel better? Pause. Close your eyes. And take 10 slow breaths.
Try chewing gum if you have trouble resisting smoking when other people light up around you.
Notice what is triggering your urge. Have understanding and kindness for yourself for feeling this urge. It isn't easy, but can you choose to let it be there without smoking?
Life can get you really stressed out, but turning to cigs isn't the answer. Call or text family and friends instead. Ask them to help you stay on track.
Take a deep breath. Focus on today and the things you have accomplished. How many urges have you let pass? Give yourself some credit!
Just because letting an urge pass isn't easy, doesn't mean that you can't do it. Try it, you might surprise yourself.
When you notice yourself trapped in stressful thoughts or worry, say out loud, "I'm noticing that I'm having some worrisome thoughts." This helps unhook you from your thoughts so you don't stay caught in them.
Picture the people or things you care deeply about. On a scale of 0-10, how willing are you to let this urge pass for those reasons?
You don’t need to get rid of or change your thoughts about smoking—just let them pass by like a cloud in the sky.
Stress is temporary. It comes and goes like passing clouds in the sky. When stress demands you to light up, remember you can let it pass by without smoking.
To keep on track, small changes can really help. For example, keep a list of quit reasons where you used to keep cigarettes, rearrange your living space, or grab some extra pens to fiddle with to keep your hands busy.
Instead of smoking, use the next two minutes to pay close attention to your senses. Notice what you see, hear, feel, taste, and smell. Urges are just one part of your experience.
Pause and take 5 slow breaths. Pausing just for a moment breaks the automatic habit of reaching for a smoke.
Keep picturing yourself getting home later today knowing that you've gained a smoke-free day. It's nearly a reality!
Think about times in the past when you have let urges pass during a stressful moment, and notice what helped make that moment easier.
You don't have to act on this feeling by smoking or doing anything about it. Give it some space, breathe, and see if it changes. Let the urge and feeling be there while you focus on doing something you care about.
One way to combat any urges is to keep your mouth busy - some people find that chewing sugar free gum, mints, or even a pen can be a good alternative.
Spend 3 minutes noticing how your hands feel, how your mouth feels, and how your chest feels. The more you practice noticing these things without smoking, the sooner this place will stop being a trigger for you.
Imagine that your urge is a backseat passenger trying to distract you from reaching your destination. See if you can choose to keep driving instead of allowing your urges to distract you from where you want to go.
Whenever you think about smoking, listen to your favorite song and sing it out loud!
Pause. Notice the feelings you are having without judgement. Let them come and go. Being aware of your feelings means you can make a new choice about how you respond to your urges instead of smoking on autopilot.
Practice staying in this location without smoking. Just notice your urge. Practicing this will weaken this trigger with time. Just think of it as practice.
Urges to smoke usually only last a few minutes. Distract yourself by NOT thinking about giraffes, or leave the situation until it passes.
Instead of lighting up a cigarette, light a scented candle or burn some incense.
If you usually smoke while you talk on the phone, keep a pen and paper nearby to occupy your hands with doodling rather than smoking.
When running a marathon, the hardest part is often towards the end, but many runners stick with it, knowing that the pain will pass. Learning to quit smoking is like running a marathon - if it gets hard, you may be closer to succeeding than you realize!
Acknowledge your unhelpful thought by writing it down on a piece of paper. Then let it be on it's way by crumpling it up and tossing it in a trash can.
No need to get rid of these feelings or control them with a smoke. They are not permanent.
If you are tempted to smoke by being in this location, see if you can sit with that temptation for 1 minute. When the minute is over, do it again. Soon, it should pass.
Add the phrase “I’m having the thought that…” in front of your unhelpful thoughts. For example, “I’m having the thought that I need a cigarette.” Your thoughts are not always true or helpful! They are just thoughts.
If you find yourself thinking: "I can't do this", "I need a cig", or "I'll just have one", make sure you tell yourself "I absolutely CAN do this", "I'm in control". Take control of your negative thoughts!
