Take a deep breath and let it out slowly. Notice that you are completely OK for this one breath. Do it again.
If you have trouble resisting a craving when other smokers are around, try carrying a water bottle and taking a sip every time you want to ask for a cig.
If leaving social situations to avoid smokers feels awkward, make sure you have something to do instead - take sugar free mints, lollipops or low fat snacks to chew, or use a stress ball.
Try to avoid seeing other people smoke. It might sound basic but brain see, brain want! If you can, make life easier and avoid the people you used to smoke with for some time where possible.
When your mind tells you that you will be less stressed after smoking a cigarette, remember that you don't have to listen to that thought. It's just a thought and nothing more.
Craving a cig? Plan a fun activity you can do when you get home as a reward for not smoking.
Each time you choose to not smoke after seeing someone else light up, you lessen the habit a little more.
Tell yourself, “I am going to quit smoking soon.” Say it out loud. Say to yourself, “I am too strong to continue smoking for the rest of my life."
Are you feeling down because you are thinking of smoking? It's really important to be kind to yourself, and to make sure you give yourself praise too!
Have confidence in knowing that you can have this urge, choose not to smoke, be okay, and choose to do things that matter most to you.
Instead of smoking, keep your fingers busy by scrolling through your phone.
To help get through a 'risky situation', remind yourself of how far you've come and the effort that you've put in. Don't ruin your hard work - stay strong!
Ask yourself, "From 0-10, how willing am I to let this urge pass without smoking?" Let it pass to be closer to the things that matter most to you.
Stop! Breathe. What is going on around you? Inside you? Allow everything to be just as it is. Breathe again.
What can you do right now to break the automatic habit of smoking to help you feel better? Pause. Close your eyes. And take 10 slow breaths.
